Add some docs about transient and sticky user activation (#20358)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/security/user_activation/index.md

---
title: Features gated by user activation
slug: Web/Security/User_activation
---

> Browsers gate access to sensitive APIs like popups, fullscreen, or vibration APIs behind user activation to prevent malicious scripts from abusing these features. This page lists web platform features available only after user activation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browsers require user consent, also known as **user activation**, to grant application access to sensitive APIs like popups, fullscreen, or vibration APIs to prevent malicious scripts from abusing these features. This page lists web platform features available only after user activation.
```

> Browsers gate access to sensitive APIs like popups, fullscreen, or vibration APIs behind user activation to prevent malicious scripts from abusing these features. This page lists web platform features available only after user activation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure applications are unable to abuse APIs that can create bad user experience when the behavior is not desired, some APIs can only be used when the user is in an "active interaction" state, meaning the user is currently interacting with the web page, or has interacted with the page at least once. Browsers limit access to sensitive APIs like popups, fullscreen, or vibration APIs to active user interactions to prevent malicious scripts from abusing these features. This page lists web platform features available only after user activation.
```

Reviewer: A little bit more explanation may be necessary for those new to this topic, so added a little bit more explanation before diving in.

A user activation either implies that the user is currently interacting with the page, or has completed an interaction since page load. Typically, this is a click on a button or some other user interaction with the UI.

> There are two types of user activation, sticky and transient.

Reviewer: types, states, or mechanisms?

Reviewer: ```
There are two types of user activation window states: sticky and transient.
```

## Transient activation

{{Glossary("Transient activation")}} is a window state that indicates a user has recently pressed a button, moved a mouse, used a menu, or performed some other user interaction. Transient activation expires after a timeout (if not renewed by further interaction) and may also be consumed by some APIs (like {{domxref("Window.open()")}}).

Example APIs that require transient activation:

- [`beforeunload` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/beforeunload_event)
- {{domxref("Clipboard.read()")}}
- {{domxref("Clipboard.readText()")}}
- {{domxref("Document.requestStorageAccess()")}}
- {{domxref("Element.requestFullScreen()")}}
- {{domxref("Element.requestPointerLock()")}}
- `GPUAdapter.requestAdapterInfo()`
- {{domxref("HID.requestDevice()")}}
- {{domxref("HTMLVideoElement.requestPictureInPicture()")}}
- {{domxref("IdleDetector.requestPermission()")}}
- {{domxref("MediaDevices.selectAudioOutput()")}}
- `MediaStreamTrack.sendCaptureAction()`
- `MediaDevices.getViewportMedia()`
- {{domxref("MediaDevices.getDisplayMedia()")}}
- {{domxref("Navigator.share()")}}
- {{domxref("PaymentRequest.show()")}}

> - {{domxref("PresentationREquest.start()")}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{domxref("PresentationRequest.start()")}}
```

- {{domxref("RemotePlayback.prompt()")}}
- {{domxref("USB.requestDevice()")}}
- {{domxref("Keyboard.lock()")}}
- {{domxref("Window.open()")}}
- {{domxref("Window.showOpenFilePicker()")}}
- {{domxref("Window.showSaveFilePicker()")}}
- {{domxref("Window.showDirectoryPicker()")}}
- `Window.getScreenDetails()`
- `Window.queryLocalFonts()`
- {{domxref("XRSystem.requestSession()")}}

## Sticky activation

> {{Glossary("Sticky activation")}} is a window state that indicates a user has pressed a button, moved a mouse, used a menu, or performed some other user interaction. It is not reset during the frame's lifetime after it has been set initially (unlike transient activation).

Reviewer: There is no 'new' information in the glossary that isn't here. Maybe we should drop the glossary term?

Author: You mean to drop the link to the glossary? Or to drop the sticky activation glossary page? I created it because there already was a page on "transient activation" so it seems good to me to also have one on "sticky activation".

Reviewer 2: Note that if we also add this information into the relevant reference pages, we will need to link to a definition of _sticky activation_, or _transient activation_, and glossary entries become very handy (more stable than a deep link and easier to memorize)
